index.md, before:

---
layout: raw
---

## GitHub Partner Enablement


### Technical Prerequisites
- [GitHub account](https://github.com/join)
- [Enterprise license](https://enterprise.github.com/login)
- [AWS account](https://aws.amazon.com/)
- [Basic Git Knowledge](https://try.github.io/levels/1/challenges/1)
- [Install Subversion](https://subversion.apache.org/packages.html)
- [Install Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
- [Install Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/)

### Acknowledgements
- built with [jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/)
- rendered for slide shows through [remark](http://remarkjs.com/)
- responsive formatting via [bootstrap](http://v4-alpha.getbootstrap.com/)  
- exported to PDF using [decktape](https://github.com/astefanutti/decktape)  

Access to published collateral is limited to members of the [Enablement Beta](https://github.com/orgs/githubpartners/teams/enablement-beta) team by [jekyll auth](https://github.com/benbalter/jekyll-auth).

### Building this Repository
- Install [Ruby](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv), [RubyGems](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems), and [Bundler](https://github.com/bundler/bundler)
- `git clone https://github.com/githubpartners/enablement`
- `script/bootstrap`
- `script/server`
- Open Browser to [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000)

Commit message:

Added two bullet points for team membership and license download

index.md, after:

---
layout: raw
---

## GitHub Partner Enablement  

### User Prerequisites
- Confirm [membership](https://github.com/orgs/githubpartners/teams#) of teams: Your organization's team, and the `enablement-beta` team
- Download your GHE trial license from [Enterprise Web](https://enterprise.github.com) prior to training day

### Technical Prerequisites
- [GitHub account](https://github.com/join)
- [Enterprise license](https://enterprise.github.com/login)
- [AWS account](https://aws.amazon.com/)
- [Basic Git Knowledge](https://try.github.io/levels/1/challenges/1)
- [Install Subversion](https://subversion.apache.org/packages.html)
- [Install Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
- [Install Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/)

### Acknowledgements
- built with [jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/)
- rendered for slide shows through [remark](http://remarkjs.com/)
- responsive formatting via [bootstrap](http://v4-alpha.getbootstrap.com/)  
- exported to PDF using [decktape](https://github.com/astefanutti/decktape)  

Access to published collateral is limited to members of the [Enablement Beta](https://github.com/orgs/githubpartners/teams/enablement-beta) team by [jekyll auth](https://github.com/benbalter/jekyll-auth).

### Building this Repository
- Install [Ruby](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv), [RubyGems](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems), and [Bundler](https://github.com/bundler/bundler)
- `git clone https://github.com/githubpartners/enablement`
- `script/bootstrap`
- `script/server`
- Open Browser to [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000)
